[Agent-based Modeling of Large-scale Complex Social Interactions](http://delivery.acm.org/10.1145/2780000/2773790/p197-zhang.pdf?ip=208.91.55.130&id=2773790&acc=ACTIVE%20SERVICE&key=A79D83B43E50B5B8%2E611F6285344C9249%2E4D4702B0C3E38B35%2E4D4702B0C3E38B35&CFID=823665336&CFTOKEN=94388555&__acm__=1509232578_0113b52af80184c569bd37b3809677a9),
*Mingxin Zhang, Alexander Verbraeck, Rongqing Meng, Xiaogang Qiu*; June 10, 2015.

The authors of this paper investigate how agent based modeling can be applied to complex social interactions. They use an agent based model where each agent is given a social role and a family role and then follows day and week patterns based on their individual roles. The authors run a simulation of their model on a large scale city model using a simulation package. After running this simulation, they perform an analysis of the simulation data where they investigate how many agents are in different types of social activities at various times throughout the day. The authors are able to confirm that their model is in fact consistent with reality and the social patterns that have been observed in the past. The model is able to explain why certain complex social behaviors take place from the perspective of an agent based model. For example, they are able to justify and explain why university students might have the least time for family activities. The authors conclude that complex social interactions can be modeled with an agent based model given the promising results of their simulation data and the fact that their results are consistent with reality.
