[An Agent-Based Model of Income Inequalities in Diet in the Context of Residential Segregation](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3625685/pdf/nihms452953.pdf),
*Amy H. Auchincloss, Rick L. Riolo, Daniel G. Brown, Jeremy Cook, and Ana V. Diez Roux*; March, 2011.

The authors of this paper explore the role of economic segregation on income differences in healthy eating through an exploration of economics and health. They seek to answer the question of what role economic segregation might have in creating disparities in healthy eating between high and low income households and what policy levers they might be able to suggest for countering these disparities. The goal of the model is to learn about how the diet differentials between low and high income households can be eliminated. The authors also seek to make policy recommendations as to what can be done to combat the differential. The model attempts to predict what would happen under certain circumstances (healthy food cheaper than unhealthy food) and explain the role these different circumstances could have on income differences in healthy eating. The authors use an agent based model where households and stores are agents interacting with each other with different characteristics. The authors simulated their model under different scenarios for low income preferences for healthy food and for geographical segregation and location of healthy food stores as opposed to unhealthy food stores. They also simulated scenarios in which healthy foods cost less than unhealthy foods. The authors discuss how their model fits in with observational studies and survey data from government and industry sources. However, the authors also state that the model was not meant to be highly realistic and that they were happy with the ways in which it fit in with qualitative patterns that had been observed in the past. Based on their model, the authors conclude that income differences in healthy eating can only be combated with healthy food that is both cheaper than unhealthy food and located geographically near low income households.
